# RFC - Enhanced Property Access
This RFC details the enhancements to property access, assignment, filtering, and operations that enables rule authors to author more complex rules against incoming CloudFormation templates or other JSON/YAML.
# Motivation

## Related Issues: [#107](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/107), [#105](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/105), [#99](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/99),[#98](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/98), [#94](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/94), [#86](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/86), [#5](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/5), [#3](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/3)

## Tenets (unless you know better ones)


**Simple**: the language must be simple for customers to author rules, simple for IDE integrations, readable for human 
comprehension while being machine enforceable. The language can be explained on the back of a postcard. 

**Unambiguous**: the language must not allow for ambiguous interpretations that makes it hard to comprehend what is 
being evaluated. The tool is targeted for security and compliance related attestations that need the auditor to 
consistent and unambiguously understand rules and their evaluations.

**Deterministic**: the language design must allow language implementers to have deterministic, consistent and isolated 
evaluations. Results for repeated evaluations for the same context and rule set must evaluate to the same result everytime.
Time to evaluate results inside near identical environments must be within acceptable tolerance limits.

**Composable**: the language makes composition of higher order rule sets from multiple different rules sets simple with 
consistent interpretation and syntax. Composition should not add complexity to interpretation and customers can easily 
navigate across them.


## Issues with Current Language

Below are some of the issues encountered with the current ruleset language that we feel necessitate some of the changes (some backwards incompatible) and enhancements included in this RFC.


## **Barewords as strings is leading to ambiguity for evaluation**
Here is a sample set of rules in the current syntax 

```
AWS::ApiGateway::Deployment Description == CloudFormation Deployment Stage
AWS::ApiGateway::Method RequestParameters == {"method.request.header.X-Forwarded-For":false}
AWS::ApiGateway::Method Integration == {"IntegrationHttpMethod":"POST","Type":"AWS_PROXY","Uri":"arn:aws:apigateway:${AWS::Region}:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/${LambdaWAFBadBotParserFunction.Arn}/invocations"}
AWS::ApiGateway::Resource ParentId == ApiGatewayBadBot.RootResourceId
AWS::ApiGateway::Resource PathPart == {proxy+}
```

From the example that is provided above 

```
AWS::ApiGateway::Method Integration == {"IntegrationHttpMethod":"POST","Type":"AWS_PROXY","Uri":"arn:aws:apigateway:${AWS::Region}:lambda:path/2015-03-31/functions/${LambdaWAFBadBotParserFunction.Arn}/invocations"}
AWS::ApiGateway::Resource ParentId == ApiGatewayBadBot.RootResourceId
AWS::ApiGateway::Resource PathPart == {proxy+}
```

here are a set of issues 

1. It isn’t clear if `ApiGatewayBadBot.RootResourceId` is a property access from an incoming properties block or a string value. The current tool evaluates ApiGatewayBadBot.RootResourceId as a string.
2. It isn’t clear if `{proxy+}` was meant to be a string comparison or was meant to be an object that was incorrectly specified.
3. Structure comparison does not use barewords for strings, you need to use valid JSON values, makes it inconsistent to understand when to use `"` and when not to. Although this comparison looks to be a structural comparison, it is actually a [string comparison](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/blob/5286412d50d49ca69c725109f7c3c6e1b817e9e6/cfn-guard/src/lib.rs#L429-L433), so if keys are not in the same order it will fail validation.

Recommendation is to quote strings with double `"` or single `'` quotes to remove this ambiguity going forward. Doing so will also allow objects with different key orders to be compared for equality.

## **Using Regular expressions to structurally match elements**

Due to the naive comparison methods employed by the CloudFormation Guard 1.0 rule evaluation, all equality based comparisons (==, !=) [compare their values as strings](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/blob/5286412d50d49ca69c725109f7c3c6e1b817e9e6/cfn-guard/src/lib.rs#L429-L433). This has led to the abuse of regular expressions to structurally match elements, as shown below:

```
AWS::IAM::Role AssumeRolePolicyDocument.Statement.*.Condition == /"SAML:aud": "https:\/\/signin\.aws\.amazon\.com/saml"/
```

1. The rule above is attempting to match a Condition key inside a Policy document. [Condition](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-policy-structure.html#policy-syntax) is a structured object in the policy document and not a string. This rule is approximating structures with string comparisons. This has lots of problems as customers need to match exact serialization model of the parser to write the rule correctly. 
2. For the auditor/reader/maintainer, they did not understand that this was a structure-based comparison. It is hard to understand if `:` was a structure separator when there are embedded `:` in there as well.
3. It breaks the language contract for accessing structural elements. The language uses dotted notation for accessing structural elements, this one does not. It is well known that regex matching of structure like JSON is ambiguous in evaluation.

To encourage ruleset authors against this, practices like this will be discouraged by disallowing comparisons of regular expressions to structures. Since the underlying statement condition is a structure and the operation is comparing against a string, evaluation will fail.

## **Insufficient property access/selection**

Multiple customers have wanted to do checks on other areas of a CloudFormation template other than a resource's properties, like disallowing certain resource types ([#3](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/3)) from a template or checking the values of parameters. With the current rule structure, authors are inable to express checks in certain situations like this.

To account for this, we want to enable non type-scoped (rules prefixed with a resource type) property access in rules. Users could author checks like:

```
Resources.*.Type != "AWS::KMS::Key"
``` 

To disallow all resource KMS Key resource types in a template.

In addition, customers have voiced concerns on the inability to successfully filter resource types matching conditions using the existing "WHEN CHECK" rule type ([#107](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/107), [#100](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/issues/100)).  Taken from the above issue, here is the following rule:
```
AWS::IAM::Policy WHEN PolicyDocument.Statement.*.Action.* == dynamodb:GetItem CHECK PolicyDocument.Statement.*.Resource != *
```

and a template: 

```json
{
  "Resources": {
    "TestPolicy": {
      "Type": "AWS::IAM::ManagedPolicy",
      "Properties": {
        "PolicyDocument": {
          "Statement": [
            {
              "Action": [
                "dynamodb:GetItem",
              ],
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Resource": [
                "arn:aws:dynamodb:*:*:table/TestTable"
              ]
            },
            {
              "Action": "logs:PutLogEvents",
              "Effect": "Allow",
              "Resource": "*"
            }
          ],
          "Version": "2012-10-17"
        },
        "Description": "",
        "ManagedPolicyName": "TestPolicy",
        "Path": "/",
        "Roles": [
          {
            "Ref": "TestRole"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Customers expect the rule to filter down to only items of the Statement array which match the given check (the first statement item and not the second in the above example. First has a dynamodb:GetItem action). Instead, the check checks ALL statements, because the given resource satisfied the check. This again violates our tenet of the language being unambiguous, as rule authors are expecting the rule to behave one way when in reality it does not apply as expected.

Rule authors should be able to filter these nested arrays in the same way that they can filter resource types which match a certain check. To accomplish this, we are proposing filtering techniques to select areas of templates that need to be checked.

Example of using filtering with the proposed syntax and new variable assignment from context (explained in depth in the proposal section):
```
AWS::IAM::Policy PolicyDocument.Statement[ Action.* == dynamodb:GetItem ].Resource.* != "*"
```

The above filtering checks only resources which meet the requirement in brackets, then checks said statements for the wildcard resource type check. With the proposals below, we hope to empower ruleset authors to create complex checks with ease, much of which was not possible in the current version of the language.

## **Verbosity when checking deeply nested properties**
Checking deeply nested properties, like encryption configuration for S3 buckets, the ruleset authoring experience becomes verbose:

To access the configuration, one needs to first author a property access like this:
```
AWS::S3::Bucket BucketEncryption.ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration.*.ServerSideEncryptionByDefault
```
then make comparisons. If there are more properties that need to be checked in the ServerSideEncryptionByDefault object, this can get verbose quickly. We are proposing enhanced variable assignment from incoming templates. Previously, variables could only be set in the ruleset files themselves and did not have dynamic values. We want to allow customers to do some of these deeply nested checks in an easy fashion by setting a variable to refer to the access, then reusing the variable for a less verbose language.

Assigning parts of the incoming data to variables will allow rule authors to compose simple to read rules:
```
%encryption = BucketEncryption.ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration.*.ServerSideEncryptionByDefault
%encryption.property == "VALUE"
$encryption.otherProperty IN ["ALLOWED", "VALUES"]
```

 
# Proposal: Enhanced Property Access and Filtering for Guard

The proposed enhancements below provide customers with a simple language that solves many of the rule modelling issues of the current language.
The language is general enough to work with any structured payload (like JSON) to evaluate a set of rules against them 
to help audit security, compliance or overall system assessment for the customer. The filtering and property access enhancements allow for a more in depth rule authoring process that gives customers full control over what to check in a given CloudFormation template or any structured json document.

Note that some of the examples below build off the block evaluations proposed in [#111](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/pull/111).
## Proposed enhancements

### Non-resource type scoped Property Access/Support

The non-type scoped property access allows access of any portion of incoming structured data (not just CloudFormation Templates). In the previous iteration of the language, rule authors could only check values of a resource whose type was specified in the rule. Now, one could access any values in the incoming template.

For example, given the CloudFormation template:
```json
{
    "Parameters": {
       "BucketName" : {
            "Type" : "String",
            "Default" : "defaultBucket",
            "AllowedValues" : ["mybucket", "prodbucket", "testbucket"],
            "Description" : "Valid values for buckets created"
       }
    }
    "Resources": {
        "MyBucket": {
            "Type": "AWS::S3::Bucket"
            "Properties": {
                "BucketName": {
                    "Ref": "BucketName"
                }
            }
            "DeletionPolicy": "Retain",
            "UpdateReplacePolicy": "Retain"
        }
    }
}
```

With the proposed property access and clause evaluation, one can access any structured data in the input, not only resource type properties. Example ruleset:

```
Parameters.BucketName EXISTS # ensure a certain parameter exists
Parameters.BucketName.Type == "String" # conforms to a certain type
Parameters.BucketName.AllowedValues.* == /\w*bucket\w*/ # make sure values are expected

Resources.*[Type == "AWS::S3::Bucket"].Properties.BucketName == { "Ref": "BucketName"} # ensure bucket name is in allowed values of parameters

Outputs NOT EXISTS # ensure no outputs are being specified

Resources.*.DeletionPolicy == "Retain" # Ensure all resources have a deletion policy set to retain
Resources.*.UpdateReplacePolicy == "Retain" # Same with UpdateReplacePolicy
```
As you can see from the comments and the ruleset, one can now reference more than just the properties section of resources. All fields can be accessed and evaluated via CloudFormation Guard rules. If the property access is not in a resource type block or prefixed by a resource type, the root is assumed to be the root of the json/yaml document. Since this is the case, it is possible to create rules against any structured json/yaml document using the new property access abilities.

### **Variable Assignment**

When authoring rule-sets, customers often have to access deeply nested properties for each array element or each key element. It gets verbose to keep repeatedly type `BucketEncryption.ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration.*.ServerSideEncryptionByDefault` for each comparison check. It is error prone to typing mistakes as well as needs fixes for all usage places when that happens. Variables allow for assignments to property access and can be used in-lieu of them. They are primarily single assignments that can be made with a scope. 

With proposed changes, variables can now be assigned values from the json that is being evaluated. Any values or keys in the incoming CloudFormation template/json/yaml can be assigned to a variable for easy access. For example. We assign the property access to the variable named `algo.`We then use that variable replacing the access pattern. This reduces verbosity, improves readability which in turn helps with the maintainability of the ruleset.

```
AWS::S3::Bucket {
    let encryption_properties := Properties.BucketEncryption.ServerSideEncryptionConfiguration[*]ServerSideEncryptionByDefault
    %encryption_properties.SSEAlgorithm == "aws:kms"
    %encryption_properties.KMSMasterKeyID in [/kms-xxx/, /kms-yyy/]        
}
```

In addition, combined with block evaluations in [#111](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-guard/pull/111), Variables can also be redefined within a scope. There is a separate scope per block form, in addition to file level

```
let global := [10, 20]                       # file level

rule ec2_sg_checks {                         # rule block level
  let ALLOWED_GROUPS := [/sg-1245/, /sg-23/]
  
  AWS::EC2::Instance {                       # type block level
    let ALLOWED_GROUPS := [....]
    securityGroups IN %ALLOWED_GROUPS
    ...
    let volumes := block_device_mappings    
    %volumes != null        
    
    when %volumes.*.Ebs != null {            # when block level
    }
  }
}
```

 e.g. a variable named *ALLOWED_GROUPS* is defined at the rule level or type block level. The order to look for variable goes from innermost scope to outer, **when > type > rule > file**
 
## **Filtering**

The language also supports filters on collections of items. These filters also use the same comparison form to select specific instances within a collection. One can use the syntax `collection[clause]` to filter objects in collections. If items in the collection match the filter clause, they will be selected.

For example, given the simple json object below:
```json
{
    "Collection": [
        {
            "foo": "bar",
            "id": "bar-id1"
        }, 
        {
            "foo": "baz",
            "id": "baz-id2"
        },
        {
            "foo": "bar",
            "id": "bar-id3"
        }
    ]

}
```

One can construct a rule to filter the collection down to only resource that have a value of "bar" for key "foo", then preform a check. Example rule:

```
Collection[ foo == "bar"].id == /bar-id(\d*)/
```

Would filter the collection down to: 

```json
[
    {
        "foo": "bar",
        "id": "bar-id1"
    },
    {
        "foo": "bar",
        "id": "bar-id3"
    }
]
```
then perform the check on the elements.

## **KEYS and Existence Operators**

We are also proposing several operators to be added to the language, such as `EXISTS` to check if a value is set and `EMPTY` to check if a collection is empty. This allows customers to solve certain use cases, like enforcing that a value is set for a given property.

One could write a rule that enforces no S3 buckets specify bucket names:
```
Resources.*[Type == "AWS::S3::Bucket"].BucketName NOT EXISTS
```

In addition, we are also proposing a way to access keys of given structures. The KEYS operator will return a collection containing the keys in a given structure. This is useful when the keys are not based on pre-defined schema Example usage with resource tags:
```
# tags contains KEYS that have PROD substring in them 
resources.*.properties.tags[*] KEYS == /PROD/

# tags VALUES contains PROD, tags: [{"PROD-ID": "PROD-122434"}, ... ]  
resources.*.properties.tags[*].* == /PROD/ 

# select tags where KEYS match /aws:application/ and check if 
# the values start with app-x1234 
resources.*.properties.tags[ KEYS == /aws:application/ ].* == /^app-x1234/ 
```

# Drawbacks

If you could tell from the examples shown above, we are moving to quoting string values in comparison checks to remove ambiguity. This allows for us to do more sophisticated comparisions, like comparing objects in a way where key order does not matter. The quoting of strings also allows for the tool to access properties in more places, as mentioned in the "Barewords as Strings" section. This makes the proposal incompatible with current rulesets. To help customers migrate their old rulesets to the new format, we would also release these features with a migration tool.

### Migration Tooling

As these changes necessitate some backwards incompatible changes, migration tooling will also be available to convert rulesets to the new langauge.

This will ensure any existing customers can take advantage of the new features and structures offered by the new enhancements in the language.

With a single command, customers can migrate existing rulesets:

```
cfn-guard migrate --ruleset old.ruleset > new.ruleset
```

The tool will:

* Convert 1.0 language rulesets to an equivalent 2.0 ruleset
* Quote all string values on RHS of rules, escaping if necessary
* Leave anything that is a JSON object on the RHS of rules as json, ensuring it is checked in a way that does not require keys to be ordered the same way.
* Consolidate checks on the same resource type into blocks
* Advise customers to re-think discouraged practices (if someone is using a regex to compare a structure, we want to flag that and not migrate that rule)
